ASHWANI KUMAR SINGH
ANDROID TECH LEAD / KMP DEVELOPER
+91-7349629131 Bangalore
ashwanisingh8713@gmail.com

About:
	A self-taught software developer and Tech Lead with a strong passion for modern technology.
	Skilled in leading teams, collaborating with clients, and delivering high-quality, impactful digital solutions that drive business success.

SKILLS:
	Kotlin Multiplatform Development (Android,
	iOS, Web)
	Android Native App Development
	KobWeb framework for building web
	applications (Static & FullStack)
	Koog - Kotlin AI Agentic Framework
	Specialized telecom and network performance
	Bluetooth & GooglePlayService NearBy
	Discovery
	SOLID principles and display pattern for
	Presentation layer(eg- MVVM-MVI)
	JetPack Libs & ComposeUI
	DI (KOIN, HILT)
	GraphQL
	Expect/Actual, Ktor, Coroutine, Flow
	Log back stack tracking
	Debugging, Memory Profiler, Performance
	bottlenecks, and Adb-tools
	Firebase Full Integration
	Client handling & support
	Google DFP & IMA Ads
	GraphQL integration & Webpack configuration
	Project Management Tools
	Team Managing, Problem solving
	Wireframe creation (Diagrams, Miro)
	GoLang Microservices (GIN)
	UnitTest cases writing
	Reactive Programming
	AI Tools & Prompt Engineering

LANGUAGES:
	Kotlin, Java, GoLang, Swift, Dart, C++

FRAMEWORKS:
	KMP, MOSQUITO, GoMobile, Kobweb, GIN, NO-SQL DB, ORMs, Wireless Communication

DOMAINS"
	NEWS, E-Commerce, Utility, Telecom & Network Performance Domain

AWARDS AND ACHIEVEMETNS:
	Pat On The Back Award in Tech Mahindra.
	Employee of the year in Ninestars Technologies in 2016.

EDUCATION:
	Bachelor in CS - July 2005 to Jun 2009 APS University, Rewa, M.P.
	10+2 (PCM) - July 2003 to May 2004 Saraswati Shishu Vidya Mandir, M.P. Board
	10th (All) - July 2001 to May 2002	Saraswati Shishu Vidya Mandir, M.P. Board

EXPERIENCE
	TECH MAHINDRA (Tech Lead, May-2024 to Present)
		Log back stack tracking, Debugging,
		Android Native, JNI code implementation.
		Performance and Memory handling.
		NR & LTE network communications and monitoring.
		Inter-Process communication and process implementation.
		Responsible for code architecture, correct coding practices, Code Reviewing.
		I have mostly been involved in development and working with the development team.
		Designed and Implemented Server driven template based custom UIs.
		Working on App Code Architecture and Performance with quality.
		Client interaction.
		Understanding and accumulating requirements, Making Flow Diagram, Providing Task breakup and estimation, distributing tasks.

	NINESTARS INFORMATION TECHNOLOGIES (Lead android developer, Aug-2015 to May-2024)
		Responsible for code architecture, correct coding practices, Code Reviewing.
		Responsible for feature delivery on Mobile. Prepare task scoping and breakdown from product stories to ensure code
		quality and reusability.
		I have mostly been involved in development and working with the development team.
		Designed and Implemented Server driven template based custom UIs.
		Worked on App Code Architecture and Performance with quality.
		Worked on Database, Scheduled syncing.
		Worked on GraphQL APIs implementation.
		Handling and Managing Team.
		Client interaction and handling.
		Understanding and accumulating requirements, Making Flow Diagram, Providing Task breakup and estimation, distributing tasks.
		Take ownership of end-to-end product quality, from developing to maintaining core app frameworks that help make
		the apps more reliable and delightful.

	GLOBAL LOGIC INDIA LTD (Senior software developer, Mar-2014 to Aug-2015)
		Android App Programmer
		Delivering and launching the product or feature successfully.
		Create prototypes of new ideas and explore new technologies at the forefront of mobile technology
		Worked on custom UIs & designs
		Database and APIs Integration
		Background Jobs, Alarm Manager, Background data syncing Implementation
		Worked on MVM Design Pattern using RxJava.

	A1 TECHNOLOGIES (Software Engineer, Dec-2011 to Feb-2014)
		Creating layouts and designs
		Database and API integration
		Multi listview with Loader data provider.
		Implemented Content Providers,
		Worked on Services and Global & Local BroadcastReceivers to load data in background and update on UIs.
		Social Login Implementation.

	RED ORANGE TECHNOLOGIES (Junior Software engineer, May-2011 to Dec-2011)
		Understood Android Mobile App Lifecycle.
		Performed REST API requests for uploading, downloading files.
		Creating layouts and designs.

	LIMITEX TECHNOLOGIES (Trainee/Junior Software developer, Sep-2010 to May-2011)
		Worked on webapp, Created basic html templates.
		Moved to Trainee Android Development.

Selected Project Experience
	Nemo Handy – Professional Wireless Network Measurement Tool
	https://www.keysight.com/in/en/product/NTH50047B/nemo-handy-handheld-measurement-solution.html
		Nemo Handy is an Android-based application for measuring wireless diagnostics, Quality of Service (QoS), and Quality of
		Experience (QoE) to ensure optimal network performance and user satisfaction.
		Key Features:
		Bluetooth & GooglePlayService NearBy Discovery to communicate and transfer data and files between multiple devices.
		Supports 5G NR, LTE/LTE-A, VoLTE, VoWiFi, ViLTE, Carrier Aggregation, and IoT testing.
		User-Friendly Interface: Intuitive dashboards for easy data interpretation.
		Device Compatibility Testing: Assess how different mobile devices perform across network types.
		Supports application-level QoE testing (YouTube, Facebook, WhatsApp, Instagram, etc.)
		Enables instant reporting, navigation, and Network Performance Score (NPS) evaluation.
		Uploading & downloading measurements on Drive, DropBox, Clouds, etc...
		Nemo Handy is the world’s leading handheld solution for drive tests and in-building network measurements—offering full
		measurement functionality, excellent visualization, and compatibility with the latest commercial smartphones.
		

	Kobweb-Blog – Full-Stack Technical Blogging Platform
	https://github.com/ashwanisingh8713/Kobweb_Blog
		Technologies: Kotlin Multiplatform, Kobweb Framework, Compose for Web, Ktor, MongoDB
		• Developed a full-stack blogging platform with Kotlin Multiplatform and Kobweb, integrating frontend, backend,
		and database.
		• Built a dynamic blogging platform with category, search, and auth modules.
		• Implemented REST APIs and MongoDB integration for seamless data management and content persistence.

	Portfolio Website – Personal Branding Site
	https://github.com/ashwanisingh8713/Kobweb_Portfolio_Ashwani.git
		Technologies: Kotlin Multiplatform, Kobweb Framework, Compose for Web, Ktor, MongoDB
		Designed and deployed a responsive portfolio with contact form integration.

	THE HINDU: LIVE NEWS UPDATES:
	https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.mobstac.thehindu&hl=enIN

	THE HINDU BUSINESS LINE:
	https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.mobstac.thehindubus inessline&hl=en
	IN
	These two apps typically provides access to a wide range of news articles covering national and international news,politics, business, sports, entertainment, technology, and more.
	Features : Customisable News Feed Offline Reading Multimedia Content Opinion and Editorial Sections Search
	Functionality Subscription Models Text To Speech Metered Paywall Day/Night Mode Dynamic UIs based on predefined template Dynamic Icons and Theme Bookmark feature Audio and Video Player DeepLink & Dynamic Link Various, Analytics Taboola DFP ADs
	Responsibilities : Take ownership of end-to-end product quality.
	Client Interaction, Gathering requirement and estimation, Sprint & team handling.
	App Architecture, Flow Diagram, Database implementation, Performance Solving.
	Implemented dynamic UI based on predefined template, written server response and structure for UI, Theme, Sync, Icons can be updated any time from server.

	KMP Project : Shopify Mobile Apps POC
		Worked on Voyager Navigator, Actual-Expect, Koin, Ktor, Clean Arch, MVI Design Pattern
		Worked on Material-3, Compose UI.
		Worked on Android, iOS and Web Apps Implementation
		Worked on Third party libraries, resources, localisations
		Worked on GraphQL API integration
		Shopify APIs integration and Store Configuration

	Additional Projects: Contributed to 10+ Android, Kotlin Multiplatform, and internal tooling
	projects.